Let's jump into an example of creating a custom container network
using the bridge driver and then adding some containers into that
network so they can communicate.
So what I'm going to do is the same exact demonstration I
showed earlier with the legacy linking,
but we're going to do this with our own custom bridge network.
Now I've updated the comments here and added two options.
So Option 1 is what we looked at earlier,
and this is the legacy linking that I showed.
But Option 2, which is the new one, is we're going to create our own network.
I'm going to call it again isolated_network,
but you would normally give it a more specific name,
probably based on the containers that are going to be in that network.
Before I run this though, let me come back to the command prompt here,
and I'll show you another Docker client command,
and it's called network, and we can do ls,
and we can list the networks.
And you'll notice currently that I have none,
host, and bridge, and it shows these different drivers.
Well,
we're going to be creating some containers in a custom bridge
network so we can communicate locally on this host.
And so to do that, we first need to create the network.
So I'm just going to grab this command here, and we'll run this.
And it gives an ID, and now I can run the same commander earlier,
docker network ls, and there we go.
You can see my isolated_network, and it's the bridge driver.
Now what's interesting about this is I can inspect the network is well.
So I can say docker network inspect,
and I can give it the name of isolated_network.
And this gives me some information,
but I want to point out currently there's no containers in there.
So it does have some information about the subnet and the
gateway and some other info up here on the ID,
but it's really not very useful at this point.
All right, so we need to run some containers in that network,
and we're going to do that using the ‑‑net switch
that I showed a little bit earlier.
So the first one I'm going to start is the MongoDB container.
So we'll paste that in, and that's going to fire that up.
Now that's in the network.
So we should build a now do a docker network inspect on our network,
isolated_network.
And now you'll notice in the containers that we have mongodb listed.
And only the items that show up in here are going to be available.
So this is actually pretty cool to work with.
Now we'll come back and we'll start up our Node container.
All right, same thing.
This will now add it.
And when we do our docker ps, we should see those both running.
All right, now I can go to the browser, and I didn't load the sample data here,
but let's just refresh.
And we should see this Docker Commands show up once it loads up here.
All right, and there we go.
Now I've already shown earlier in a previous demo that if we want,
we can do this docker exec,
and this will run against the name that you see here of the container.
So it made it a little bit easier.
You don't have to know the container ID now.
Go ahead and run that, and that starts it up,
and then I can just stop to get out.
Now the MongoDB database should have some data, and there we go.
We're now able to run that.
So that's an example of how we can use our container
networking or bridge networking.
It really depends on how you want to look at it,
but the official term is container networking with a bridge driver.
And that's how we can have multiple containers communicate
with each other in a way that isolates them to this custom
network container that we created.
Pretty cool stuff.
Now that you've seen that,
let's do the same thing with the ASP.NET Core and PostgreSQL.
So I'm going to run through this want to little more
quickly because we've already seen it.
But if I run in and say docker network ls,
you'll notice I have kind of the standard items here,
and now I'm on the Mac side versus the last one was on the Windows side.
So we can again create our custom network.
We'll paste that in.
There we go.
So now we can run our docker network ls, and there we go.
It's in there.
But if I ran the inspect, it would be empty,
of course, as far as the containers.
All right, so from here,
we'll go ahead and now we'll start up our database container,
and then we'll go ahead and start up our web server
container that wants to communicate with that.
All right, we're off and running, so let's make sure they're started.
All right, both are up it looks like over here.
So we can come back over and let me refresh this particular IP and port,
and we should see the same type of page on this particular browser.
All right, there we go.
So there's ASP.NET Core again with Postgres.
But again, this time they're running inside of their own network,
so let's just prove that one more time by doing docker network inspect.
And then the name of the network was isolated_network All right,
and you can see we have two containers.
There's aspnetcoreapp, and there's our postgres.
So the name is actually the name that was used in
the connection string up in here.
And likewise on the MongoDB side, the name of that container,
of course, was used in the connection string.
So this is the preferred route moving forward with Docker as you
are definitely moving to staging and production.
Now I'd say in development,
I don't know that it matters quite as much because
you may not even need a network,
but it's just as easy I think to set up a network as it
is to link with the legacy linking.
So I'll let you kind of debate the merits there.
Either one works. But that's an example of how we can do this with container networks.